.TH ZINGZONG "1" "October 2017" "zingzong @VERSION@" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
zingzong \- manual page for zingzong @VERSION@
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zingzong
[\fI\,OPTIONS\/\fR] \fI\,<song.4v> \/\fR[\fI\,<inst.set>\/\fR]
.br
.B zingzong
[\fI\,OPTIONS\/\fR] \fI\,<music.4q>
.SH DESCRIPTION
A Microdeal quartet music file command line player.
.SS "OPTIONS:"
.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fB\-\-help\fR \fB\-\-usage\fR
Print this message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version and copyright and exit.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fB\-\-tick\fR=\fI\,HZ\/\fR
Set player tick rate (default is 200hz).
.TP
\fB\-r\fR \fB\-\-rate\fR=\fI\,[R\/,]HZ\fR
Set re\-sampling method and rate (soxr,48K).
.TP
\fBR\fR :=
\fBint:qerp\fR ..... quadratic interpolation (fast,MQ).
.br
\fBint:lerp\fR ..... linear interpolation (very fast).
.br
\fBint:none\fR ..... no interpolation (lightning fast/LQ).
.br
\fBsoxr\fR ......... high quality variable rate.
.br
\fBsinc:best\fR .... band limited sinc (best quality).
.br
\fBsinc:medium\fR .. band limited sinc (medium quality).
.br
\fBsinc:fast\fR .... band limited sinc (fastest sinc).
.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fB\-\-length\fR=\fI\,TIME\/\fR
Set play time.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR \fB\-\-blend\fR=\fI\,[X\/,]Y\fR
Set channel mapping and blending (see below).
.TP
\fB\-m\fR \fB\-\-mute\fR=\fI\,CHANS\/\fR
Mute selected channels (bit\-field or string).
.TP
\fB\-i\fR \fB\-\-ignore\fR=\fI\,CHANS\/\fR
Ignore selected channels (bit\-field or string).
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fB\-\-output\fR=\fI\,URI\/\fR
Set output file name (\fB\-w\fR or \fB\-c\fR).
.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fB\-\-stdout\fR
Output raw PCM to stdout or file (native 16\-bit).
.TP
\fB\-n\fR \fB\-\-null\fR
Output to the void.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR \fB\-\-wav\fR
Generated a .wav file.
.SS "OUTPUT:"
Options `\-n/\-\-null',`\-c/\-\-stdout' and `\-w/\-\-wav' are used to set the
output type. The last one is used. Without it the default output type
is used which should be playing sound via the default or configured
libao driver.
.P
The `\-o/\-\-output' option specify the output depending on the output
type.
.TP
\fB\-n/\-\-null\fR
output is ignored
.TP
\fB\-c/\-\-stdout\fR
output to the specified file instead of <stdout>.
.TP
\fB\-w/\-\-wav\fB
unless set output is a file based on song filename.

.SS "BLENDING:"
.P
Blending defines how the 4 channels are mapped to stereo output.
The 4 channels are mapped as left pair (lP) and right pair (rP).
   \fIX\fR := B  lP=A+B  rP=C+D (default)
        C  lP=A+C  rP=B+D
        D  lP=A+D  rP=B+C
.P
Both channels pairs are blended together according to \fIY\fR.
   \fIY\fR := 0    L=100%lP       R=100%rP
        64   L=75%lP+25%rP  R=25%lP+75%rP
        128  L=50%lP+50%rP  R=50%lP+50%rP
        192  L=25%lP+75%rP  R=75%lP+25%rP
        256  L=100%rP       R=100%lP
.P
 L := ((256-Y).lP+Y.rP)/256   R := (Y.lP+(256-Y).rP)/256

.SS "TIME:"
.IP \[bu] 2
0 or inf represents infinite duration
.IP \[bu]
comma(,) dot(.) or double-quote(\(dq) separates milliseconds
.IP \[bu]
`m' or quote(') to suffix minutes
.IP \[bu]
`h' to suffix hours
.P
If time is not set the player tries to auto\-detect the music duration.
However a number of musics are going into unnecessary loops which make
it harder to properly detect.
.SS "CHANS:"
Select channels to be either muted or ignored. It can be either:
.IP \[bu] 2
an integer representing a mask of selected channels (C-style prefix)
.IP \[bu]
a string containing the letter A to D (case insensitive) in any order
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <https://github.com/benjihan/zingzong/issues>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2017-2023 Benjamin Gerard AKA Ben/OVR
Licensed under MIT license
